## Chapter 1
### Software Engineering
Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is concerned with all aspects of software production
### Software Engineering Ethics
1. PUBLIC - Software engineers shall act consistently with the public interest. 
2. CLIENT AND EMPLOYER - Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest. 
3. PRODUCT - Software engineers shall ensure that their products and related modifications meet the highest professional standards possible. 
4. JUDGMENT - Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their professional judgment. 
5. MANAGEMENT - Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and maintenance. 
6. PROFESSION - Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of the profession consistent with the public interest. 
7. COLLEAGUES - Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their colleagues. 
8. SELF - Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding the practice of their profession an
## Chapter 2
### Software process models
All model involves
**Specification** – defining what the system should do; 
**Design and implementation** – defining the organization of the system and implementing the system; 
**Validation** – checking that it does what the customer wants; 
**Evolution** – changing the system in response to changing customer needs
#### Waterfall
For big company with fixed plan
1. Requirements **analysis** and definition 
2. System and software **design** 
3. **Implementation** and unit testing 
4. **Integration** and system testing 
5. Operation and **maintenance**
#### Incremental Development
Easy to change
Fast delivery
process invisible 

#### Integration and configuration
Reduced costs and risks as less software is developed from scratch
very fast delivery
use reusable components
no control over evolution
### Process activities
1. Software specification, where customers and engineers define the software that is to be produced and the constraints on its operation. 
2. Software development, where the software is designed and programmed. 
3. Software validation, where the software is checked to ensure that it is what the customer requires. 
4. Software evolution, where the software is modified to reflect changing customer and market requirements.
### Coping with change
prototyping 
incremental delivery
Coping with changing requirements
Reducing the costs of rework
### Process improvement
process **measurement** - use data to access (time resource, events)
process **analysis** - and process weaknesses and bottlenecks are identified. Process **models** (sometimes called process maps) that describe the process may be developed
process **change** - Process changes are proposed to address some of the identified process weaknesses.
#### Agile approach
focuses on iterative development and the reduction of overheads in the software process
rapid delivery 
#### Process Maturity approach
focuses on improving process and project management and introducing good software engineering practice
The SEI process maturity framework identifies maturity levels that essentially correspond to the use of good software engineering practice
Initial ▪ Essentially uncontrolled 
Repeatable ▪ Product management procedures defined and used
Defined ▪ Process management procedures and strategies defined and used
Managed ▪ Quality management strategies defined and used 
Optimising ▪ Process improvement strategies defined and used
